Advent of Code
==============

This repository contains Pablo Halpern's solutions (and work in progress) to
the annual [Advent of Code](https://adventofcode.com/) challenge. For those
unfamiliar with the Advent of Code, it is a series of 50 callenges presented
annually as an Advent Calendar by Eric Wastl. Although he reveals 2 puzzles
each day starting on Dec 1, once revealed, the puzzles are available
indefinitely, including for previous years. As I do not always have time to do
the challenge on the day it was presented, I often have to play catch-up on the
weekends. In 2021, it took me until mid January to complete the last
challenge, as the challenges become more difficult as the month goes on. You
can read Eric's [About the Advent of Code](https://adventofcode.com/about) page
[here](https://adventofcode.com/about).

I use these puzzles not only as fun theoretical challenges, but also to refresh
and sharpen my language skills, especially in Python, but sometimes in C++
(using new language and/or library features). Occasionally I will do both, to
compare complexity and runtime speed. Because I choose to do things the "hard
way", sometimes, in order to learn a new skill, not all programs follow the
ideal style, though I try to be tidy and document when necessary.

The solutions are origanized into directories by year. Each puzzle source is in
the form *puzzleXX.Y.py* or *puzzleXX.Y.cpp*, depending on which computer
langauge I used to solve it.  The *XX* represents the puzzle number and the *Y*
represents the sub-part (part 1 or 2). Sometimes I have multiple solutions and
add a letter suffix to *Y*.  Puzzle inputs are typically named
*puzzleXX_input.txt*.  The input files typically do not have a *Y* component
because most puzzles use the same input for parts 1 and 2. Files with a name of
the form *puzzleXX_sample.txt* are small inputs copied from the puzzle
description.
